# CS-360-Mobile-Programming

#1.Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

The overall goal of the app I developed in this course was to have an application that allowed users to manage their inventories or assortment of items in an easier manner. Basically, the app was meant to be an easier way to track inventories, while also being able to use the app on the go. (This app would replace the traditional pen/paper form of inventory management) Also, if I remember correctly, the prompt for this project mentioned that this app would be used for tasks regarding warehouse management. In regard to the actual requirements for the app, they were the following. First, the main requirement was that there should be a database in the app that stores inventory data, and another database that stores login data. The next major requirement was that there should be a way for a user to login to an account, or make a new account, which would grant them permission to use the app's features. Once a user was logged in, they needed to be shown the items in their inventory in a sort of table. Beyond this, the other requirements were to allow users to add new items to the inventory database, allow users to delete items from the inventory database, and to allow users to edit items in the inventory database. For all of these features, there needed to be multiple different UIs/views. There also had to be a SMS notification feature that notified users when an item reached 0 in quantity. Overall, this app was designed to give users an easier, and more efficient way of tracking and managing inventories/certain databases.

#2.What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

For my application, there two main screens that were necesary for the application to support the user needs. These two screens were the Login screen and the main inventory table screen. Both of these screens allowed access to the other, less important screens. In a sense, these two screens acted as the gateways to the rest of the application. On the login screen, there were editText boxes and a few buttons to allow users to enter their login info, login/navigate to the main table screen, or register/navigate to the register screen. On the main table application screen, there was a top bar and the actual table with three columns. Each row in the table was able to be tapped on that would take a user to the edit screen. There was also a floating action button at the bottom right of the UI that would take users to the add item screen. The add item and edit item screen were the other screens that I implemented to support the user needs. All of these screens included the necessary features to allow the users to meet their goals by using the application. Personally, I feel that my UI designs were pretty successful thanks to how simplistic my design was. By keeping the UIs very simple, I was able to make the app pretty intuitive and easy to navigate. The UI design also heavily supported the features that were required by the users. The only thing I could have probably changed was adding a more visible way to access the edit item screen.

#3.How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?

With the coding of my app, I approached each UI one at a time. I first started by working with the Login UI code. This involved me setting up the java files necessary for this UI which inlcuded my SQLiteDBHelper and MainActivity java classes. These two files pretty much covered the login database, logging in, and the entering text features for the login UI. After I had the Login mainActivity java file for the login UI done, I worked on the RegisterActivity file for the register account UI. By completing these three files, I had finished the first few requirements which were to make a way for users to login and register a new account. Then, with these two UIs done, I moved on to the main table UI. This UI required a few java files to get operational. The first being a base for the actual items in the database. This file just included some basic String fields and some getters/setters. The next files were the SqlDBHelper_Inventory, the ViewItemsList, and the ItemAdapter. These files created the format for the way items appeared in the UI and the actual database for the inventory. With these files done, all that was left was to make the AddItem file and the UpdateActivity file. These two files were used to implement the edit/delete item and add item features.

Overall, my process for the coding of my app was to work on one UI at a time, finish the code for that UI, and move to the next UI. Throughout this entire process, I was constantly testing my code to see if it worked properly. This was really important to me because it helped me know when I was good to move onto the next feature or next UI. Basically, my entire process was very incremental. Do a little bit of code, test it, take a break, and then repeat until I was done. I did also test things in terms of integration at the end of the cycle. Personally, I feel that my process for approaching the coding aspects of this project can be applied to pretty much any future coding work. An incremental process where I work a little bit, while constantly testing is a sure fire way to take your time, while also ensuring everything works like it should. To me, this is one of the more efficient ways to ensure your code meets the requirements prompted by the users/clients.

#4.How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?

For testing, I mostly just ran my application and walked through it in the way that a user might do so. I had to setup the android studio emulation software to allow myself to emulate the app on my pc, which did require a little bit of trial and error, but I got it to work after a little bit of Bios options editing. So, like I mentioned, for testing, I literally just ran my code in the emulator, and tested all of the buttons, edit texts, and features to ensure everything was functional. This process was very important for me because it helped me find out some of the problems that were occuring when my application was running. It also helped me ensure I was meeting the requirements for the app functionality. For example, when I was working on my Login feature, I had some problems with the acutal Login function working. This required me to run the code in the emulator and view the logcat feed to see what was causing the error. After some troubleshooting and looking into my code, I was able to fix the problem pretty easily. 

#5.Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

Throughout the entire process, the phase where I had to innovate the most was in the coding process. There were many moments in the coding process where I had to alter the code or the UI xmls in order to make the code work properly, which was a very tedious process. I also had to change up a lot for my inventory table UI because of the way I was trying to code it. Also in the coding process, I had to innovate a lot when developing the code for my databases since I wanted them in different files. Basically, I was able to copy most of the login database code into the inventory database code file, but there were still a lot of changes I had to make. Mainly, I had to implement the code to allow for updating, adding, deleting, and reading from the invnetory database, which took a lot of time to make it work correctly. In particular, the reading function for the database code gave me a lot of trouble because it was only reading the first entry for the database, which was an issue. This problem was being caused because my UI xml file and my ViewItemsList java class were not set up correctly to receive the input from the database. This took a bit of time to figure out and forced me to sift through code for about 2 hours trying to fix the issue. I made sure to take a break here and there to let my mind rest before going back into the code to look for the problem. I also tried replicating the problem a few times to try and understand where things were going wrong.

#6.In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

I feel that out of all of the components in my mobile app, the one where I successfully demonstrated my knowledge was with the inventory database and its CRUD features. I spent a lot of time trying to get the inventory database functions to work properly and display properly to the UI, so I feel very proud about the work I did for it. I felt like I really showed my skills in the Java programming language in this part, as well as my minimal skills with SQL. I also felt that it showed I understand how to meet some of the major user requirements for an application through my coding abilities.
